README.md, before:

# Rust MFRC522 driver

This is a `no_std` driver for the MFRC522, an *ISO/IEC 14443 A/MIFARE*
reader/writer IC.
This repository is an extension of [japaric/mfrc522](https://github.com/japaric/mfrc522)
and will hopefully be merged with it one day.
For more information on the background of this repository, [go here](doc/more_info.md).

What works:
- [x] SPI communication with the MFRC522
- [x] Anticollision loop
- [x] Select for 4-byte and 7-byte UIDs
- [x] Mifare Classic authentication
- [x] Reading/writing data
- [ ] Configurable timeout
- [ ] Non-blocking API + support for the interrupt pin
- [ ] Mifare Ultralight C 3DES authentication (no support planned)

## Examples
In the `examples/` directory, you can find an example for the Raspberry
Pi and BeagleBone Black. The Raspberry Pi example is a copy of the
example from **[mfrc522](https://github.com/japaric/mfrc522)** repository,
but the BeagleBone example has been extended to show the new
functionality in this repository.

This code has also been tested with the STM32L476 Nucleo board, if an
extra example for this use-case would be required, please open an issue.

## License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or
  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the
work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

Update Cargo.toml + README: merge with `mfrc522`.
This repository will be the new home of the `mfrc522` crate,
originally started by [japaric](https://github.com/japaric/mfrc522).
The `rfid-rs` crate is now deprecated.

README.md, after:

# Rust MFRC522 driver

This is a `no_std` driver for the MFRC522, an *ISO/IEC 14443 A/MIFARE*
reader/writer IC.
This repository is an extension of [japaric/mfrc522](https://github.com/japaric/mfrc522)
and the new home of the `mfrc522` crate.
For more information on the background of this repository, [go here](doc/more_info.md).

What works:
- [x] SPI communication with the MFRC522
- [x] Anticollision loop
- [x] Select for 4-byte and 7-byte UIDs
- [x] Mifare Classic authentication
- [x] Reading/writing data
- [ ] Configurable timeout
- [ ] Non-blocking API + support for the interrupt pin
- [ ] Mifare Ultralight C 3DES authentication (no support planned)

## Examples
In the `examples/` directory, you can find an example for the Raspberry
Pi and BeagleBone Black.
The BeagleBone example fully demonstrates the available functionality.

This code has also been tested with the STM32L476 Nucleo board, if an
extra example for this use-case would be required, please open an issue.

## License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or
  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the
work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.
