doc/more_info.md, before:

# Additional information about this library
This repository started as a Rust port of the [Arduino/C++ rfid library](https://github.com/miguelbalboa/rfid) by Miguel Balboa,
which in turn is based on code by Dr. Leong and has been extended by Søren Thing Andersen and Tom Clement.

Originally it required a `std` environment and only targeted
embedded Linux platforms, like the Raspberry Pi and BeagleBone boards.

This has since then been refactored and now it is a `no_std` driver
based on [embedded-hal](https://crates.io/crates/embedded-hal).

## Technical information
There are three hardware components involved:
* The micro controller
* The PCD (short for Proximity Coupling Device): NXP MFRC522 Contactless Reader IC
* The PICC (short for Proximity Integrated Circuit Card): A card or tag using the ISO 14443A interface, eg Mifare or NTAG203.

The microcontroller and card reader uses SPI for communication.
The protocol is described in the MFRC522 datasheet: https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/MFRC522.pdf

The card reader and the tags communicate using a 13.56MHz electromagnetic field.  
The protocol is defined in ISO/IEC 14443-3 Identification cards -- Contactless integrated circuit cards -- Proximity cards -- Part 3: Initialization and anticollision".  
A free version of the final draft can be found at http://wg8.de/wg8n1496_17n3613_Ballot_FCD14443-3.pdf  
Details are found in chapter 6, Type A – Initialization and anticollision.  

If only the PICC UID is wanted, the above documents has all the needed information.
To read and write from MIFARE PICCs, the MIFARE protocol is used after the PICC has been selected.
The MIFARE Classic chips and protocol is described in the datasheets:
* 1K:   http://www.mouser.com/ds/2/302/MF1S503x-89574.pdf
* 4K:   http://datasheet.octopart.com/MF1S7035DA4,118-NXP-Semiconductors-datasheet-11046188.pdf
* Mini: http://www.idcardmarket.com/download/mifare_S20_datasheet.pdf
The MIFARE Ultralight chip and protocol is described in the datasheets:
* Ultralight:   http://www.nxp.com/documents/data_sheet/MF0ICU1.pdf
* Ultralight C: http://www.nxp.com/documents/short_data_sheet/MF0ICU2_SDS.pdf

MIFARE Classic 1K (MF1S503x):
* Has 16 sectors * 4 blocks/sector * 16 bytes/block = 1024 bytes.
* The blocks are numbered 0-63.
* Block 3 in each sector is the Sector Trailer. See http://www.mouser.com/ds/2/302/MF1S503x-89574.pdf sections 8.6 and 8.7:
    + Bytes 0-5:   Key A
    + Bytes 6-8:   Access Bits
    + Bytes 9:     User data
    + Bytes 10-15: Key B (or user data)
* Block 0 is read-only manufacturer data.
* To access a block, an authentication using a key from the block's sector must be performed first.
* Example: To read from block 10, first authenticate using a key from sector 3 (blocks 8-11).
* All keys are set to FFFFFFFFFFFFh at chip delivery.
* Warning: Please read section 8.7 "Memory Access". It includes this text: if the PICC detects a format violation the whole sector is irreversibly blocked.
* To use a block in "value block" mode (for Increment/Decrement operations) you need to change the sector trailer. Use PICC_SetAccessBits() to calculate the bit patterns.
MIFARE Classic 4K (MF1S703x):
* Has (32 sectors * 4 blocks/sector + 8 sectors * 16 blocks/sector) * 16 bytes/block = 4096 bytes.
* The blocks are numbered 0-255.
* The last block in each sector is the Sector Trailer like above.
MIFARE Classic Mini (MF1 IC S20):
* Has 5 sectors * 4 blocks/sector * 16 bytes/block = 320 bytes.
* The blocks are numbered 0-19.
* The last block in each sector is the Sector Trailer like above.

MIFARE Ultralight (MF0ICU1):
* Has 16 pages of 4 bytes = 64 bytes.
* Pages 0 + 1 is used for the 7-byte UID.
* Page 2 contains the last check digit for the UID, one byte manufacturer internal data, and the lock bytes (see http://www.nxp.com/documents/data_sheet/MF0ICU1.pdf section 8.5.2)
* Page 3 is OTP, One Time Programmable bits. Once set to 1 they cannot revert to 0.
* Pages 4-15 are read/write unless blocked by the lock bytes in page 2. 
MIFARE Ultralight C (MF0ICU2):
* Has 48 pages of 4 bytes = 192 bytes.
* Pages 0 + 1 is used for the 7-byte UID.
* Page 2 contains the last check digit for the UID, one byte manufacturer internal data, and the lock bytes (see http://www.nxp.com/documents/data_sheet/MF0ICU1.pdf section 8.5.2)
* Page 3 is OTP, One Time Programmable bits. Once set to 1 they cannot revert to 0.
* Pages 4-39 are read/write unless blocked by the lock bytes in page 2. 
* Page 40 Lock bytes
* Page 41 16 bit one way counter
* Pages 42-43 Authentication configuration
* Pages 44-47 Authentication key

Commit message:

Update Cargo.toml + README: merge with `mfrc522`.
This repository will be the new home of the `mfrc522` crate,
originally started by [japaric](https://github.com/japaric/mfrc522).
The `rfid-rs` crate is now deprecated.

doc/more_info.md, after:

# Additional information about this library
This repository started as a Rust port of the [Arduino/C++ rfid library](https://github.com/miguelbalboa/rfid) by Miguel Balboa,
which in turn is based on code by Dr. Leong and has been extended by Søren Thing Andersen and Tom Clement.

Originally it required a `std` environment and only targeted
embedded Linux platforms, like the Raspberry Pi and BeagleBone boards.
This code was published as the `rfid-rs` crate.

Since then, this repository has been refactored and is now
a `no_std` driver based on [embedded-hal](https://crates.io/crates/embedded-hal).
The code is now published as the `mfrc522` crate, which was created
by [japaric](https://github.com/japaric/mfrc522).

## Technical information
There are three hardware components involved:
* The micro controller
* The PCD (short for Proximity Coupling Device): NXP MFRC522 Contactless Reader IC
* The PICC (short for Proximity Integrated Circuit Card): A card or tag using the ISO 14443A interface, eg Mifare or NTAG203.

The microcontroller and card reader uses SPI for communication.
The protocol is described in the MFRC522 datasheet: https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/MFRC522.pdf

The card reader and the tags communicate using a 13.56MHz electromagnetic field.  
The protocol is defined in ISO/IEC 14443-3 Identification cards -- Contactless integrated circuit cards -- Proximity cards -- Part 3: Initialization and anticollision".  
A free version of the final draft can be found at http://wg8.de/wg8n1496_17n3613_Ballot_FCD14443-3.pdf  
Details are found in chapter 6, Type A – Initialization and anticollision.  

If only the PICC UID is wanted, the above documents has all the needed information.
To read and write from MIFARE PICCs, the MIFARE protocol is used after the PICC has been selected.
The MIFARE Classic chips and protocol is described in the datasheets:
* 1K:   http://www.mouser.com/ds/2/302/MF1S503x-89574.pdf
* 4K:   http://datasheet.octopart.com/MF1S7035DA4,118-NXP-Semiconductors-datasheet-11046188.pdf
* Mini: http://www.idcardmarket.com/download/mifare_S20_datasheet.pdf
The MIFARE Ultralight chip and protocol is described in the datasheets:
* Ultralight:   http://www.nxp.com/documents/data_sheet/MF0ICU1.pdf
* Ultralight C: http://www.nxp.com/documents/short_data_sheet/MF0ICU2_SDS.pdf

MIFARE Classic 1K (MF1S503x):
* Has 16 sectors * 4 blocks/sector * 16 bytes/block = 1024 bytes.
* The blocks are numbered 0-63.
* Block 3 in each sector is the Sector Trailer. See http://www.mouser.com/ds/2/302/MF1S503x-89574.pdf sections 8.6 and 8.7:
    + Bytes 0-5:   Key A
    + Bytes 6-8:   Access Bits
    + Bytes 9:     User data
    + Bytes 10-15: Key B (or user data)
* Block 0 is read-only manufacturer data.
* To access a block, an authentication using a key from the block's sector must be performed first.
* Example: To read from block 10, first authenticate using a key from sector 3 (blocks 8-11).
* All keys are set to FFFFFFFFFFFFh at chip delivery.
* Warning: Please read section 8.7 "Memory Access". It includes this text: if the PICC detects a format violation the whole sector is irreversibly blocked.
* To use a block in "value block" mode (for Increment/Decrement operations) you need to change the sector trailer. Use PICC_SetAccessBits() to calculate the bit patterns.
MIFARE Classic 4K (MF1S703x):
* Has (32 sectors * 4 blocks/sector + 8 sectors * 16 blocks/sector) * 16 bytes/block = 4096 bytes.
* The blocks are numbered 0-255.
* The last block in each sector is the Sector Trailer like above.
MIFARE Classic Mini (MF1 IC S20):
* Has 5 sectors * 4 blocks/sector * 16 bytes/block = 320 bytes.
* The blocks are numbered 0-19.
* The last block in each sector is the Sector Trailer like above.

MIFARE Ultralight (MF0ICU1):
* Has 16 pages of 4 bytes = 64 bytes.
* Pages 0 + 1 is used for the 7-byte UID.
* Page 2 contains the last check digit for the UID, one byte manufacturer internal data, and the lock bytes (see http://www.nxp.com/documents/data_sheet/MF0ICU1.pdf section 8.5.2)
* Page 3 is OTP, One Time Programmable bits. Once set to 1 they cannot revert to 0.
* Pages 4-15 are read/write unless blocked by the lock bytes in page 2. 
MIFARE Ultralight C (MF0ICU2):
* Has 48 pages of 4 bytes = 192 bytes.
* Pages 0 + 1 is used for the 7-byte UID.
* Page 2 contains the last check digit for the UID, one byte manufacturer internal data, and the lock bytes (see http://www.nxp.com/documents/data_sheet/MF0ICU1.pdf section 8.5.2)
* Page 3 is OTP, One Time Programmable bits. Once set to 1 they cannot revert to 0.
* Pages 4-39 are read/write unless blocked by the lock bytes in page 2. 
* Page 40 Lock bytes
* Page 41 16 bit one way counter
* Pages 42-43 Authentication configuration
* Pages 44-47 Authentication key
